As we pick up here in Genesis chapter 46, Joseph has been sold in the slavery, 22 years.
We know that story, the famine in the land, and now he's been made second in the land, and the family comes down, and we've been through these chapters of the testing of the heart of the brothers, and it's come to that the brothers' hearts have been changed, and we see that clearly in their life, and Joseph
In last chapter of Genesis 45, he reveals himself.
It's a shocking moment for the brothers.
Then he says, oh, my father is still alive.
And for where we pick up here today in Genesis 45 verse 26 is where we ended last week.
And they told him saying, Joseph is still alive and is governor over all the land of Egypt and Jacob's heart stood still because he did not believe them.
But when they told
him all the words which Joseph had said to them and when he saw the carts which Joseph had sent to him to carry him the spirit of Jacob their father revived then Israel said it is enough.
Joseph my son is still alive I will go and see him before I
die.
Lord, would you let your word come alive, remove man from getting in the way, let the word do what it was designed to do, reproduce, and bring harvest.
You plant this seed, you water this seed, you bring the harvest that comes from the seed of the Word of God.
And would you do that?
Because I know in this room everyone has a need of some sort.
Even if it's the need of we just want to know our God is here.
Speak and draw in comfort.
But Lord, for the needs of the hurting and those who are even may be questioning, where are you and what are you doing?
Would you meet them?
And again, Lord, put man away and let your word through your spirit reach hearts and change lives.
And I pray this in your name.
Amen.
I will go and see him before I die.
Verse one, Genesis 46, so Israel took his journey with all that he had and came to Beersheba and offered sacrifice to the God of his father, Isaac.
So we pick up here, and I think there's something to be said here.
We're gonna see that Jacob has to be driven on the cart.
He's of this age.
He's about 130 years old at this time.
And like his father,
father, Isaac, grandfather, Abraham, he's probably thinking, hey, I'm up in the age now and he'll say it a couple times before I die, before I die.
In this chapter, the last chapter, I think he's thinking that he's at that age that I'm gonna die here soon.
Interestingly, like his dad and granddad, he's got some life living to go still yet.
He's about 130 years old and he's gonna live to be 147.
I just sit there and I ponder those things as I thought on these things.
And, you know, there's a power in knowingness that God holds our breath in his hand.
Not telling anybody anything new, of course, but I think we can forget it because life is so daily that we
We wake up, we got to do the, you know, domestic duties and chores and the menial work and these type of things.
But Psalm 90 verse 12, so teach us the number of our days that we may gain a heart of wisdom.
Daniel chapter 5 verse 23, and the God who holds your breath in his hand and owns all your ways.
There's just the wisdom church where we go.
I should count my days.
I only have a set amount of days for a certain period of days in my life.
And when I come to that realization, then I go, well, how should I use my days?
Because there comes the wisdom of I don't have an endless supply of life.
And so how should I be living my life?
But then there's this place that I come to, but wait, you hold my life in your hands.
And therefore, as revelation as we read the testimony of their witness, nobody's life comes to any end just like we read in Revelation until the testimony is over.
And God says, your testimony is done.
Come on home and hear these words well done, good and faithful servant.
And now when I look at these things, I go, I have this amount of time in my life.
but it's determined by the God who holds my breath in his hand.
Therefore nothing can happen to me and nothing can change these things based on those type of things.
And so what I'm just going with before I start with is, you know what?
Go for it.
What is it that you've been thinking about that God has spoken to you about?
Is it a ministry?
I'm going to teach the children's church or I'm going to go on a mission trip or I'm going to go on the outreach up to the city on Saturdays or I'm going to go and be part of these things.
And I just think there's a place to step out and just go, what do I got to lose?
And we're going to see how God will speak to us.
The title of the message is fear not because that's what he said, you know, but God's
Preparing us for the journey ahead and I can just step on and go I don't need to fear What is it that you have for me?
I'm gonna step out and trust in you and I was just talking to a pastor who You know saying hey, we might lose our building we might be homeless, you know what I said to him how exciting I Go, you know the excitement comes
when the possibility of failure is there.
What's exciting about everything being predetermined, and I know the outcome, but to know that I could possibly fail, to know that this could not go the way that I'm thinking or whatever it may be, that brings the excitement, and that's what brings the excitement to your life and to my life when I sit here and I just go, I don't know what tomorrow holds.
And I'm going to step out and then therefore I have one thing and one thing only.
I need to call upon the name of the Lord.
Lord, this might fail.
And apart from you, this could be a total disaster that happens here, but an animal will start building on those type of things.
But the Moravian missionaries who were set out hundreds plus years ago, 200 plus years ago,
They would launch out in the places that people would go, that's just crazy.
And they would all say the same thing after their last day and they would get on a ship and people would come to the shore and they would be waving goodbye.
And they would have a saying that would go something along this line of, may the lamb who was worthy receive his inheritance.
God came.
died for us to receive an inheritance which is us in the book of Ephesians.
This is amazing.
You would consider me an inheritance.
Aren't you my inheritance?
The answer is yes.
But may the lamb who is worthy receive the offering of his inheritance.
Here's my life, Lord.
You died for it.
I completely trust in you.
What is it you want me to do?
He may be calling you to go missions.
He may be calling you to do something even far bolder and more scarier, teaching Sunday school.
And God bless you there.
I'd rather go across the sea.
I'm telling you, and it's beautiful getting this opportunity to be used by the Lord or whatever He has for you.
So He comes to bear shiba as we pick up on that.
And Bathsheba is the border before you go into Egypt.
It's as far as you can go in the land of Canaan before you enter into Egypt.
And I like what my one pastor friend, he said when I was talking with him of that the sand there before you enter into Egypt is really hot.
And here comes Jacob.
And he's filling the heat of the sand right before he enters into Egypt.
And now he starts getting cold feet.
Because if you start to consider what we're talking about here, let's read on and consider these things.
Verse two, and God spoke to Israel.
in the visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob.
And he said, here I am.
And again, worth noting, it's always interesting when God talks to men, Jacob, Jacob, Moses, Moses, Saul, Saul.
He has to say it twice because men are like, huh?
What?
Are you talking to me?
Women, we don't see that.
He doesn't say Mary, Mary, you know?
He doesn't say Ruth, Ruth, but here's men, huh?
Oh, you're talking to me.
And so I love this end that we just read.
Jacob comes to bear sheep, has been there before he comes back to an altar that's been there.
And now he's offering this altar of sacrifice.
He's offering a sacrifice.
I believe it's partly a sacrifice of praise.
Thank you that my son's alive.
Thank you for the provisions that you give me.
But now I think he's in this place.
And the power of this verse that we're looking is he had
ears to hear.
He's listening that God might speak and he has ears to hear to go what here I am Lord speak to me.
And that is just a powerful place for us in our lives in that are we still that God can speak to us.
There's a place that we can just start getting into a place of life.
What do I need to hear anymore?
I know you spoke.
I do this.
I know that you spoke and you do that and these type of things.
And here Jacob comes to this place where here I am Lord and he's going to sit.
I need to speak because here's what we look at in our passage today as we consider these things verse three and four.
So he said, I am God, the God of your Father, do not fear to go down to Egypt, for I will make you a great nation there.
So first thing up, obviously, God who knows the heart knows that he's fearful for some reason.
Hey, fear not.
Whatever he's fearful about, and I think we'll possibly know here in the next verse, fear not.
Maybe you need to hear that today.
Maybe you just like, I don't know what's going on in my life.
I don't know what's next in my life.
And God will speak to you and say, fear not.
And I love the beauty of this and especially anyone who's going to step out or anyone who thinks.
And I think here's a place.
Maybe there's a place in your age that you go, well, you know, there's nothing really left for me.
I've passed the time that I would expect you to do something like this in my life.
Hey, Jacob.
He's 130.
He's got 17 more years to live.
He thinks he probably only has another couple breaths in him.
He might not even know if he's going to make it to Egypt.
And I think there's a place in your life that you may feel, you know, I think there's probably not much more left for me.
And now I just kind of ride this out until the Lord calls me home.
Do you realize Jacob's going to enter into the greatest years of his life?
He can't even walk the three weeks.
He's got to be carried.
We'll read here, but he is going to be taken and he's going to get to experience seeing the sun that he thought was dead.
He is going to get to see not just Joseph and they're going to weep on each other's neck, but he is going to get to see his boys all 12 united.
They have not been united.
They have been divided.
They have been lying, scheming, cheating, and everything else.
They've now just finally have come clean before their father.
That was a lie.
Joseph did not die by a wild beast.
It was us.
We sold him, but dad, we are in this together.
We have a reconciliation and restoration with our brother.
We have been forgiven.
We have a family together and we're all going to come together and he is going to get to live the greatest years of his life because the greatest years of the life will always be when a family is united.
And the family is together in love following after the Lord and God building and forging a nation and doing great things.
And that's what he does with this nation of Israel.
And that's what he'll do with our homes.
And here he comes.
He gets to experience the boys being one, his family being one.
And then he's going to get to stand before the greatest man on the planet.
Pharaoh at the time, the strongest nation in the world.
And he's going to get to proclaim a blessing upon him.
His later years are his greatest years.
And God can do that for you, regardless of your age.
And I think of where there's just a place where you go, you know what, Lord, you're not done, and therefore I'm not done.
What is it you have before me?
And it doesn't matter what your age is.
And I love this, as I said, hey, maybe God's calling you to step out.
There's a place we all need to be stirred.
I will say it to myself because it's easy that I can find myself just relaxing into what we do on Sunday.
I know what I'm doing Monday and all these type of things.
And then when you go, no, Lord, what is it you have for me?
Then you hear it and you go, fear not.
He'll speak because he'll say, wait a minute, I wasn't expecting that.
And then we
Wait upon the Lord, and He speaks to us, He brings us this peace.
No, this is what I'm calling you to do.
This is where I'm calling you to do it.
And I know it's a big step of faith, and there's a lot of challenges that come with it.
And, you know, I'll be the first to say, just to be honest with you, of we joke.
Me and my one friend, we joke, but we make this look easy.
That's our joke, is like when you
when you misquote scripture, and you're like, oh, that's right, that's not, that's not in John, that's in Luke, and all these type of things, and oh, wow, you make this look.
Well, you know, this week I get on airplane, I go to Nepal, and I meet with 100 pastors, and I'll just be transparent on us with you.
I believe I'm probably the last guy that should go.
I got all these other friends, and I go, why don't you go?
You know?
And I can hear the Lord say, fear not.
Fear not.
Because when I said, Lord, should I be the guy that goes and the Lord spoke, just to reaffirm, and he spoke to go three, four months ago, then he spoke last week of Ray, can you abide in me?
Yeah.
Can you just sit at my feet in the morning and wait upon me?
And then can you go and show them and tell them of my glory?
Yeah, I can do that.
Then I have this piece and I go, I can do that.
And I love this verse and that I will make you a great nation for whatever God's calling you to do.
I don't need to make the great nation.
I don't need to be anything less than Jacob, go to Egypt, and I'll make you a great nation.
That's all he had to do was get to Egypt and God would make the great nation when he got there.
And whatever God's calling you to do, whether it's to go to Nepal or whether go to across the street, get involved in whatever it may be, I am the one who makes not you.
You just need to follow and be where I called you to be.
And there's just a power and a freedom in that.
If you hold my breath, if you count the number, you've got my days measured and counted and all these things, and you're the one who makes the great things that come for your glory, then all I gotta do is just be walking where you're leading, and I can rest in that.
And here comes Jacob, he's gonna go down, and here's the Lord speaking.
Verse four, I will go down with you to Egypt, meaning you go, I'm going with you.
You don't go alone, whatever the calling may be.
And I will surely bring you up again, and Joseph will put his hand on your eyes.
He's given a promise to the whole nation of Israel.
And the power of this is, and the place that we're going, the vitalness of these verses is that God said to go, and that I will go with you.
Because he's going to walk in, and there's going to be a time that's going to be
prosperous and beautiful and then there's going to be a time that comes and then there arose a Pharaoh who did not know Joseph and the children of Israel will go into 400 years of slavery by God's design and you could be sure this when the hard times come they would be sitting there going should we have done this we shouldn't have been here to start with you know we're not in God's will and that's why we're under this oppression that's why these bad things are happening in our life until someone would go know the word of God spoke and said
go to Egypt.
We have a calling that this is where God has called us.
And we will see and I'll give the big picture up front is God's calling the 70.
He's bringing them into an incubator.
They're going to be insulated by the greatest military world power around them.
And God will take them through the fires of the furnace that slavery would bring them into.
And he will take 70.
When they walk out of here, it will be 2.5 million.
And when they leave and they do 40 years of wilderness wandering, that forged steel will be undefeated in the battlefield.
And then they will go and they will take what God's called him, and they will enter into the Promised Land, and they will establish a nation that still stands 4,000 years later.
That's power.
But when they come and they go, should we be here, somebody comes and says the word from the Lord said yes.
And when you hear the word of the Lord and you come into a place and then all of a sudden it doesn't turn out, I just said, step out, see what happens.
Who cares?
Oh, it might fail.
That's exciting.
Well, guess what?
It might start looking like it's failing.
It might start looking like, ah, I shouldn't didn't hear it from the Lord.
And you go, no, I did hear from the Lord.
And therefore I know I'm in the right place.
It might be your marriage.
It might be the ministry.
But you go, no, the Lord spoke to me.
And therefore, I know this is where I'm supposed to be.
And given up on the word that you spoke, and I'm going to hang on to it, I'll make you a great nation.
And all the power that we see here, and he says, you're going to go down.
You're going to see.
Joseph, you will die in the honor of Joseph, the tenderness.
And that's what it means.
He will put his hand on your eyes.
You know, that's the closing of the eyes.
It's the last act of tenderness by a loved one of putting that.
And then we know that the nation of Israel will come.
But you know, there's this thing of, you know, fear not.
Why is he fearful?
Joseph's in power provisions upon the land.
What's there to fear about?
Well, here's the beauty as we look at these type of things.
Isaac, Jacob's father, don't go to Egypt.
And now we're going to see this place where God will tell one, don't go, tell another to go.
And everything looks right that I should go.
Joseph's there, he's prime of provision.
But then he's probably thinking that I'm on Bursheep and I start thinking about this.
There was a famine in the land.
Genesis 26, for you note, takers.
Besides the first famine that was in the day of Abraham, we'll talk about that here.
And Isaac went to Billamet, King of the Philistines in Girard.
That's the border town there on Egypt.
Then in Egypt, then the Lord appeared to him and said, do not go down to Egypt.
Live in the land which I shall tell you.
Wow.
That didn't go well when Isaac went down there.
And now I'm thinking of going down, and I remember my dad being directly told, don't go down there.
But now I think of granddad Abraham, Genesis chapter 12.
Now there was a famine in the land.
Oh, wow, this is really sounding familiar.
I'm in a famine, they were in a famine.
These things are lining up in the land, and Abram went down to Egypt to dwell there, for the famine was severe."
Oh, that was probably nothing compared to the famine we see.
Verse 11, Genesis 12, and it came to pass when he was close to entering Egypt, that he said to Sarai, his wife, indeed, I know that you are a woman of beautiful countenance.
Therefore, it will happen when the Egyptians see you that they will say, this is his wife, and they will kill me.
but they will let you live.
Please say you are my sister, that it may be well with me for your sake, and that I may live because of you."
Yeah, so when granddad went down, he got himself into a lie.
He lied to save himself.
He was willing to put my grandma in this harm's way, and then he has to sit and go, and you know what?
One of the greatest problems in my family is my family.
Esauen Isaac.
Now Sarah Abram's wife had born him no children and she had an Egyptian maidservant whose name was Hagar.
Dad, granddad went down and he brought this Egyptian maidservant out and then all this mess began and so now he has to be sitting there going
is this the right thing?
And here's the application for us today.
For one, it's the right thing for another, it was the wrong thing.
And can you see the amazing correlation in that he is being clearly told, go, but there was grandfather and dad who was clearly told, don't go down there.
And God will speak to us in this situation because when you look at it from the one side,
Every logical piece made sense to leave Canaan, famine.
Joseph said five more to go.
There's no surviving that.
Come down.
Joseph's in charge.
He's going to provide for us.
Everything makes long as your whole sense.
But then there's another side of the logic that said that is totally illogical because dad and granddad went down and it ended in disaster.
So here he is on the hot sands of Beersheba getting cold feet.
And he does what wisdom does.
what wisdom will do for us.
I'm gonna get to the altar, the altar sacrifice.
I'm gonna praise you, because that's gonna remind me who you are, the are who you say you are, and you will do what you say you will do.
You'll never leave me nor forsake me.
You're the God that has redeemed me and bought me with your very blood.
I know I'm precious in your sight.
And now I come to you and I go, what would you like me to do?
What is your word?
And I will promise you this and I will guarantee you this without a doubt of this.
He will speak.
And here's four things we always talk about.
And we talk about them all the time because we need to talk about them all the time because this world is uncertain and therefore we want to be in this place.
Lord, I don't want to go.
I don't want to get in front of you, but I surely don't want to be behind you.
When you say to go, I wanna be right beside you where you said, and I'll be with you when you go to Egypt.
And so what he speaks to us, we have to go, is it in agreement with the word?
We're gonna see four things, agreement with the word, godly counsel, wait on the Lord, and the fourth thing is a confirmation of the word that he will speak to us.
So is it in agreement with the word, 2 Timothy 3 16?
This is why we're gonna study for 50 minutes, not 20.
We do Bible studies so we know what the Word of God says so we can actually look back and see examples of
greats in the Bible and what they did and we can apply it to our life and 2 Timothy 3 16 all scriptures given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine reproof for correction and for reproof for correction for instruction and righteousness that the man of God may be complete thoroughly quit for every good work.
Hey, I want to equip you and I'm going to equip you with the word of God Psalm 119 105 your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path I'm going to lead you and guide you through my word
not through feelings, emotion, logic, or any of those things, even though these may be pieces that line up, ultimately it's gonna come down what does the word of God say?
And I've had people come to me and nobody in this room and they go, pray for me.
This is situation.
Will you pray for me?
And I go, no, no, I'm not gonna pray for you.
Your pastor, that's a rule you're supposed to, I am not going to pray for you.
if you should be in that relationship because you were unequally yoked.
You know it.
You are single believer in Christ.
That person is not, not a believer in Christ.
You should not be together.
The Word says that that's settled.
Nothing more to pray about or even talk about.
You need to cut this off.
You want me to pray for the power to do it?
I'll pray for that.
But I'm not going to pray for this situation.
And there's a place that the Word of God just settles it.
And we don't even have to go further in any of these type of things.
And I think there's things that you know and you're listening to right now.
What does the Word God say about that?
You're thinking of doing something and you know, and there's even place you can start looking for the loophole.
God's word doesn't have loopholes.
It's really black and white.
It's really that simple.
When we want loopholes, we'll try to make loopholes, but the loopholes, this is what I told you to do.
Go to Egypt.
Nothing more to talk about.
No loophole about that.
And then the next thing is godly counsel.
God will speak to us, but there's just this wisdom that comes with having godly counselors around us.
I have godly counselors in my life.
I speak to them and I know the word.
I study the word, but they're still placed like, oh, hey, brother, can I speak to you?
I just want to share something with you.
I'd like to hear what you would say to me because I, you know, you can speak clearly to me because of our relationships.
A wise man will hear Proverbs 1, 5 and increase learning and a man of understanding will attain wise counsel.
Proverbs 11, 14, I think there's a purposeful meaning along in this where there is no counsel, the people fall, but in the multitude of counselors, there is safety.
Have lots of friends, but only have a few really close counselors in your life.
Don't go share every lassaro with all hundred people that are your friends.
There's a place of generalization and being transparent.
Yeah, but you know what I'm saying is when you want counsel, notice it's plural because you can get that one counselor in your life and you have become such good friends.
They're never going to say anything to offend you because they don't want to risk the one on one friendship that you have, but they'll still give you counsel.
But then there's places where some of the other people in your life, counselors multitude, just maybe two or three, and they'll say, hey, you know what, bro?
I've known you a long time.
And you know, I would never speak anything less than direct to you.
And I just have to say this to you.
You're fearful, or you are wrong, or you know what you need to do.
Just go do it.
and there's power in the counselor's plural that can come from the different angles.
And even that counselor who maybe doesn't know you that well, there's a power that you don't share every last detail, but they just know this is what the Word of God said.
You know it and I know it, so just step by, let's go do what God's telling you to do.
As hard as it may be or whatever it may be.
Well, then there's just the waiting on the Lord.
Whatever those things are, it will always stand the test of time.
Every time we do a mission trip,
And we come back, it's most always the same thing of, I'm selling everything I got and I'm quitting my job and I'm moving to Cambodia.
And then I go, yeah, yeah, yeah, okay.
Let's talk about this in 30 days.
No, I want to go now.
Ah, 30 days.
What's 30 days in the scheme of a lifetime?
Because you come back, you've got emotions, you're on fire and all these type of things.
And that's good, but there's a place where time will always let it be known what God's word is.
You'll move beyond the emotion.
Same with the dating scene for you.
You know, if you're young and you're single, I just met the most great person.
When can we start marriage counseling?
Tell you what.
Let's talk about this in three months.
Maybe six, maybe a year.
You know where I'm going with that.
Wait on the Lord.
Psalm 27 verse 14, wait on the Lord.
Be of good courage and He shall strengthen your heart.
Wait, I say, I think God's saying wait.
Psalm 37 verse 34, wait on the Lord and keep his way, and he shall exalt you to inherit the land when the wicked are cut off.
You shall see it.
Psalm 34, 37 verse four through seven, delight thyself in the Lord, and he shall give you the desires of your heart.
Commit your way to the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass.
He shall bring forth your righteousness as the light and your justice as the noonday, rest in the Lord.
wait patiently for him, do not fret because of him who prospers in his way, because of the man who brings wicked schemes to pass.
You know what I like about the light thyself and the Lord?
God is always the initiator.
And so we have this thing that we can take that verse and go, I delight in this, therefore Lord bring it to pass.
And I really, there's a power in this church in that if you've been delighting in something and it has stood the test of time,
I don't mean a week a day.
I mean, like, this has been on your heart for days, week, months, years.
God put that in you.
And I say that to my single friends all the time.
I want to be married and it looks like I'm never going to get married.
It must have just been me and my desire.
And I go, if you've had that desire in your heart for all these years, God put that desire in your heart.
He's the initiator.
You just need to wait and trust Him.
Don't try to shake the bushes, you'll, you know, thank God that God put Adam to sleep otherwise he'd have been shaking bushes and turning up rocks and he'd have married an orangutan.
Instead, God puts him to sleep and he has to rest and then he wakes up, oh, ah, what happened?
God brought, you're brought, you just rest, he'll bring that person to you
And then there's always the confirmation, I believe, by the word.
And that word may come through the verse that you've been waiting and listening and pondering, or it might come through that counselor who speaks that word to you.
And I don't necessarily am saying that it has to be a Bible verse, but it's a word that was spoken because sometimes prophecy, when someone speaks and foretells the gift that comes from the Lord and speaks it to someone, it doesn't come out
It comes in alignment with the word of God, but this doesn't come out as a verse.
You know what I mean by that?
It just comes out, hey, someone speaks and you go, man, that was from the Lord.
That was confirmation from the Lord.
So here it's really easy for Jacob.
Then God spoke to Israel in the vision of the night, verse two, Genesis 46, and said, Jacob, Jacob.
And he said, here I am.
So he said, I am the God and the God of your fathers.
Do not fear to go down to Egypt.
Fire will make you a great nation there.
I will go down with you to Egypt.
And I will also surely bring you up.
And Joseph will put his hand on your eyes.
And he's going to need that word.
He's fearful.
Now he knows it's time to go.
And then when they get this word and they
come to a place, and then there was a Pharaoh who knew not Joseph, they can go, but this is where God called me to be.
Verse 5 through 7, as we move on through that, everyone goes.
Before I get there, everyone goes.
There is something to be said here.
that everyone goes.
And where I'm going with this church is, I believe they looked at Jacob and said, there's something in his faith that all the kids will go, I will follow you.
There's something that they hear, if you mean Joseph, survive 22 years through all these things, there's something in Joseph that gives me the confidence that this is the word from the Lord and that I should follow.
Everybody who follows has to have the same faith to believe that this is the calling that God gave them.
And I think there's a power, parents, there's a power, ministers, that when people look and go, your faith, I can follow.
Your faith, I believe.
leads because God is leading you in verse five through seven.
Then Jacob arose from Bathsheba and the sons of Israel carried their father Jacob.
So see he can't, he's on the card, he can't walk it.
Their little ones and the wives and the carts which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
Verse six, so they took their livestock and their goods which they had acquired in the land of Canaan and went to Egypt, Jacob and all his descendants with him.
His sons, his sons, his daughters,
and all his son's daughters and all his descendants, he brought with him to Egypt.
They followed, they believed.
There was something that was in his life as well as Joseph's that they said, we shall follow you.
And then here we go.
If you look down at your Bible, verse eight through 25, here's a list of names.
All these names are listed.
In the end, it's gonna sum up to 70 people as we look at these and why would the Lord put
All these names, it's the trip manifest.
Here's everyone that had the faith to go.
Here's where God called these names and they went and they followed.
We're going to see through these names and I won't.
I'm going to read them all.
You know why I'm going to read them all?
Because God listed them all.
And maybe you feel like you're just a face in the crowd.
You're not.
You are a name in a crowd.
that God knows by name, records, and I pray, in the Lamb's Book of Life, that your name has been recorded because you have received Jesus Christ, and there's a Lamb's Book of Life that isn't just this general book, it is by name.
These people who walked in by faith by name, because this is who our Lord is.
We're gonna see names here that we need for Matthew and Luke when we get there for the genealogy of the Jesus.
Now, these were the names of the children of Israel.
Jacob and the sons who went to Egypt.
Ruben was Jacob's first boy in the sons of Roman, where Hanukk, Pula, Herzon, Kamehir.
The sons of Simeon were Jamal, Jaman, Ohed, Jashin, Zohar, Shayal, the sons of a Canaanite woman.
Lots of details that we could go down to, but making my point, the son of Levi was Gershen, Kowaf, Mirah.
The sons of Judah were Eer, Onan, Selah, Perez, Zerah, that should sound familiar when we get to the New Testament, genealogy of Jesus, but Eer and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
The sons of Perez were Hezon and Hamal.
Verse 13, then Ishikar were Tola, Puvah, Job, Shimeron.
The sons of Zebulun were Serah at Elon, Jaleel.
Verse 15, the sons of Lea,
whom she bore to Jacob in Padam Aram with his daughter Dinah, and all the doth persons, his sons, and his daughters were 33.
The sons of Gad were Ziphon, Hagai, Sunay, Esbon, Era, Eredah, Ariel.
The sons of Asher, these are the 12 sons, were Jimmy, Isah, Izu, Bera, and Zera, their sister, and the sons of Bera were Hebar and Michael.
These were the sons of Zilpha whom Laban gave to Leah, his daughter, and she bore Jacob 16 persons.
Verse 19, the son of Rachel was Jacob's wife with Joseph and Benjamin.
Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manassas in the Ephraim who asked Nath the daughter of Potipharah, priest of Onen, bore to him.
The sons of Benjamin, he's probably like 25, by the way, were
Bella, Becca, Ashbell, Guerra, Naaman, Iha, Roche, Mufum, Hefum, and Arad.
10, he's 25, he's got 10 kids.
Verse 23, the son of Dan, Wuhushum, the son of Natali, was Jesus, Gunna, Jiraz, Shailam.
Verse 25, the sons of Bill Ha, where Laban gave to Rachel, his daughter, and she bore these to Jacob, seven persons in all.
We'll see the total number 70.
Why would I read all these names?
I think it's important for you to remember again, God knows you by name.
Formed you in your mother's womb, Isaiah 49, 16.
See, have I not engraved you on the palms of my hand?
You know God knows where you're at right now, literally.
Oh, I'm gonna give them double blessing that they come to this church.
Oh my goodness.
If you're jokes aside,
I know where you're at.
I know where you left this morning.
And I know what was going on in that house.
And I know where you're going tomorrow.
And I know what happens in that workplace or that place that you'll go tonight and meet with family and the all these things.
I know all these things.
And I know exactly where you are.
And I know every detail where you are.
I was reading this story.
True story.
And it was
in the 50s, the story's told.
And it was a journalist.
And he says, so I'm a journalist.
I interview people and these type of things.
And he goes, it's very interesting.
I'm so
routine.
There's probably only one maybe one other person who can relate to that routine.
I love my routine and this type of thing.
It's big to deviate from my routine.
He goes, but I said, you know what?
Even though I know I should be getting on the L67 and going down the Manhattan, I just feel this today.
I need to get and go to Brooklyn and I need to go see that person who
you know, is sick.
So I'm going to break that routine on a Monday through Friday.
I'm going to do that today, not wait till the weekend.
So he goes there, he visits, he has that time, and then he's getting on his train to go back home.
And these type of things, which would be not the train that he would normally be on.
And he sits down through a store and he's sitting there and he gets on and he goes, oh man, this train packed New York, of course.
And he goes, and then somebody just like jumps up and leaves.
and runs out the door, just as I'm coming in, I'm like, whoo, one seat, and I sit down, and I sit there, and I look over, and there's a guy with a newspaper in his hand reading a newspaper from Hungary.
And he goes, I know, hungry.
And he goes, do you mind if I look over your shoulder?
I'd love to read the newspaper, and the guy goes, folds it up, he goes, here, you can actually just read it, you can have it.
And he goes, so we start having small talk.
And he goes, so are you from Hungary?
He goes, I was.
And I was liberated by American forces.
And during the German time, and I was brought here to America, and I immigrated here.
And he goes,
And the reason I came back is because after I was liberated and I returned back to my home in Hungary, I went to my street in Hungary, went to the home that I grew up in, and I went to the door, and he goes, and a stranger answered the door, and the stranger goes, I know who you are.
He goes, your whole family was killed in the Holocaust.
Your wife was killed.
None of your family survived.
And he goes, and then that's when the opportunity came to come to America.
So I came to America.
And here I am working this type of thing.
He goes, what town did you live in in Hungary?
He goes, name the town, Diperson or something.
And he goes, the journalist goes, man, that sounds familiar.
I know that town.
I did an article about that two years ago.
And he goes, let's get off the next stop together.
They get off the next stop.
He goes, would you mind just standing here?
And he goes, strangely, I wrote this phone number down, and I did an article, and I interviewed this lady who was liberated by American forces from the German, and she now lives here in New York.
And he got on the phone, and he said, do you remember me?
I interviewed, oh yeah, I remember you.
He goes, you are in Hungary, you lived in Diperson, right?
She goes, yeah, he goes,
Can I ask you what street you lived on?"
And she said, you know, 789, Plow Street or whatever it is.
And he said, to the man standing before him, what street did you live on in Hungary?
He goes, 789, Plow Street.
And he's just staring and he goes, what's your wife's name?
He said, her name, my wife's name was Mary Pachel.
And he goes, and he hands the phone.
He goes, your wife would like to talk to you on this phone.
And he says, he watched and stunned the silence.
And he put that man on a taxi because he said, I might be a journalist, but this is no place for me to, this is family time.
put him in the taxi and send him to that address, and they had their husband and wife reunion.
And you know what I want to say about that is, what's the probability?
God knew where she was, God knew where he was, the world events unfolded and turned upside down and somehow several thousand miles away they both end up in New York living only, you know, a taxi ride away from each other and God took a man out of his routine and put him in the middle to bring these two together and there's just this amazing thing that this is who our God is.
And I see this where Jacob is stepping out in faith and he's
He's fearful, what does God have for me?
And the unknown can be so fearful, but even the known can be so painful.
All I know is what I have today, and it's hurting, it's painful.
And yet God says, man, I'm in your future, I'm in your present.
I was there for your past.
I knew where you were in Germany, in Hungary, and I know where you are in New York City.
I know where you are in Calvary Chapel of Anne Arundel County, in Glen Burnie, and all these type of things.
And you are anything but a face and a crowd.
You are known and loved by me by name.
And I've list all 70 of these names here.
in this passage for you to know that I know names, and we read every name, and verse 26 through 27 says,
All the persons who went with Jacob the Egypt who came from his body besides Jacob's sons wives were 66 persons in all.
And the sons of Joseph who were born to him in Egypt and were two persons and the person of the house of Jacob who went into Egypt for a total of 70.
And as I said, and then 2.5 million come out as forged steel as God brings them in these latter days.
and then for the life of Jacob.
Verse 28, then he sent Judah before him, this is Jacob, to Joseph to point out before him the way to Goshen, and they came to the land of Goshen.
So here he comes, he's setting this up, this reunion, and here's the reunion, verse 29 and 30, and it says, so Joseph made ready his chariot.
went up the ocean to meet his father, Israel, and he presented himself to him, fell on his neck and wept on his neck a good while, and Israel said to Joseph, now let me die since I've seen your face because you are still alive 22 years.
Can you imagine this reunion and the two of them face to face and what that must have been like?
And it just made me think this as well.
I don't understand or even try to say that I can understand the greatest mystery of the world.
Father, Son, Holy Spirit.
One.
And I don't even tread to try to say that I understand what it was like when Jesus, the Son stepped out of heaven and became flesh and dwelt among us.
But what I do know is six hours on a cross on a hill outside of
Jerusalem called Golgotha for your sin and my sin.
Jesus hung on a cross and said, Father forgive them.
They know not what they do.
And for six hours and three of them darkness would fall upon the land because Jesus for the first time would be separated from his father.
Thirty-three years physically separated
Connecting in spirit through prayer as we would see the life of Jesus, but six hours total separation and Jesus would say, my God, my God, why has thou forsaken me?
Not even able to call him father because at this moment he is taking on my sin and your sin, the sin of the world separated from the perfect Holy Father and he would be on that cross and take the full shame.
Die, be buried,
Three days later, rise again.
Then, after the period of time, Pentecot, the 40, he would ascend into heaven and be received by the Father.
And I just sit and go, what did that look like when they would be united?
that the Father would behold and hold the Son and the Son would behold the Father for your sin and my sin beautiful.
And I think we see a glimpse of it because if you can think of 22 years Jacob thinking that his son was dead and the day the two of them laid their eyes upon each other.
Amazing.
And for you and for me to be willing to be separated.
And then
We close with, and I just want to make the point.
I'm well over my 20 minutes.
I know.
Verse 31, then Joseph said to his brothers and to his father, and this sets us up for our next time together.
I woke up and tell Pharaoh and say to him, my brother and those of my father's house who were in the land of Canaan have come to me.
and the men are shepherds for their occupation has been to feed livestock.
And they had brought their flocks, their herds, all that they have, verse 33.
So shall be when Pharaoh calls you and says, what is your occupation?
Verse 34, that you shall say your servants occupation has been with livestock from our youth even till now.
Both we and also our fathers, that you may dwell in the land of Goshen,
for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.
I love the wisdom of Joseph and what he's doing here is mark yourself.
They think shepherds are an abomination.
And here's what the Lord's speaking to you, and this is a word especially for you youth, but I think it's for all of us.
You go into the workplace tomorrow or wherever the Lord has you is, make yourself a marked man, a marked woman.
Go in with your Bible,
You can take it into the workplace, go into your school yard with your Jesus shirt on, let yourself be a marked man or woman so that the people don't try to assimilate you into their life.
Each of the picture of the world, they don't invite you to the happy hour, they don't invite you into the conversations that are not pleasing to the Lord and these type of things.
Let them know that you're a follower of Jesus and they will reduce at least 80 fold that they won't
You're an abomination to me, man.
I'm gonna put you out in Goshen and keep you in the and we are told we are not.
We're not in the world.
We're not of this world.
He sends us into this world to reach these people, but they're not to affect us.
We are to affect them and change their lives.
And so step out, let people know, make yourself marked.
And that's what Joseph's doing here so that they don't become assimilated and start working for Pharaoh's house and these type of things and beautiful wisdom of the Lord for us.
I do have one more amazing story, and I know we hit our mark.
Another story.
I got this from Pastor Joe Fosch, so I quote him, Jerusalem Post, and it's the story, true story, an impossible story, because I'm trying to weave a story, the impossible God working the possible for you and I.
especially when we think all things are impossible for us.
But two men, an older man and a younger man sitting on a plane by chance next to one another, starting a conversation because they're both Jewish.
Both of them could speak that dialect of the Hebrew called Yiddish.
and they strike up this conversation, they have this warmth of the conversation for the flight that they had and then the morning time came and breakfast came out and the one Jewish man was breakfast came out and he didn't say no to the sausage, the pork.
The young man sit next to him, was raised as a, and it became a rabbi and he says, you know,
With all due respect, you shouldn't be eating that pork."
And the older gentleman said, I lost my son in the Holocaust.
I survived Oswich, the brutal prison camp, but more so losing my son when I came out.
I said, I don't care about dietary laws anymore.
I just disregard those things.
The younger boy, younger man, he let that thing go.
And he's part.
And the younger man, he said, man, I wish I had got his name so I could contact him.
I just really feel a connection to him, but missed that opportunity with him.
Two years later, the young man comes to Israel, makes his first visit to the Holocaust Museum.
And he walks into the Holocaust Museum and who is standing at the door, but that man from the plane, he goes, wow, we meet again.
He said, I was so wanting to connect with you and now to see you.
And here you are.
He goes, the young man says, I've come to do the Holocaust Museum because I lost my whole family in the Holocaust.
And I came here to walk the museum.
And he says to the older man, would you walk with me?
The older man says, no.
I come here every day.
I just stand here every day.
But I've never walked the museum.
I can't.
My heart hurts too much because I lost my family.
I lost my only son in the Holocaust.
And then it just struck this young man at the time.
He goes, what's your name?
And he said his name, and the young man goes, when I left the orphanage, they only gave me one word, and it was my father's last name.
And he looked at him, and he said, Tati, which in Yiddish means father.
It was his father, and they were son.
So he moves to Israel, the two of them live together.
And the Jerusalem Post article, they said to the son, you know, tell us about all this.
And he said, you know, Dad actually quit eating pork.
And he said, but you know what?
I'll say is somewhat uncomfortable for me, is every time I walk into the room, my father stands up to receive me.
And I think there's a place that speaks to the heart of God.
We would never think of it, but the Lord will stand when we make heaven sure, and He's going to receive you.
He's going to receive me.
He's going to welcome us home as sons and daughters that have been away way too long.
But this same God who does these impossible stories like Joseph and Jacob and Israel and all these things that we just read today and husband and wife from Hungary and the father and son of the Holocaust
He is that same God yesterday, today, and forever.
He is unchangeable.
And I just pray to you, pray for you, whatever seems like the impossible situation, the same God that we just studied today.
And that's who the God did is for you.
And that's the God who goes before you.
And that's the God who will be waiting for you.
And Lord, I just am amazed by your goodness that's how great you are
Your love, Your mercy, and Lord that you would be willing to be separated, Jesus, from the Father, take on the darkness that came with that cross as the sin of Brabolas.
And everyone in this room was placed upon you, the perfect pure Son, now shamed before the Father.
And yet you were willing to do that.
for everybody named by name here today because there's no body that's not known to you.
Formed and fashioned in the mother's womb, Isaiah 49 engraved on the palm of your hands, and the amazing thing now that we're robed in that righteousness that the Father's going to stand.
This is you stood to receive Jesus, no doubt in how you will stand to receive us.
When we see you face to face, we are more than
Faceless, nameless, we are known and loved by the Father in Heaven.
So bless your people, meet their need, whatever it is today, to know your heart that beats for them.
I thank you for your word, and I thank you for this passage.
In your name, amen.